docs(router): clarify how base href is used to construct targets (#38123)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/router.md

Those developers may still use HTML5 URLs by taking the following two steps:

1. Provide the router with an appropriate `APP_BASE_HREF` value.
1. Use root URLs for all web resources: CSS, images, scripts, and template HTML files.

```
foo://example.com:8042/over/there?name=ferret#nose
\_/   \______________/\_________/ \_________/ \__/
 |           |            |            |        |
scheme    authority      path        query   fragment
```

* The `<base href>` path should end with a "/", as browsers ignore characters in the path that follow the right-most "/".
* The query part in the `<base href>` is only used if the path in the page URI is empty and also has not query. This means the query from the base will only be included when using `HashLocationStrategy`.

> * If a URI has an `authority` part, the authority, path, query, and fragment are taken from the URI. In this way, an `APP_BASE_HREF` with an authority can override the `<base href>` value.

Reviewer: Is a distinction being made between "URI" and "URL"? If not, we should standardize on URI, as used in the RFC.

Author: URL is a more specific URI. I've changed these all to URL since it seems that's what we mostly use in the docs.
https://danielmiessler.com/study/difference-between-uri-url/#:~:text=Here%20are%20the%20differences.,as%20HTTPs%20%2C%20FTP%20%2C%20etc.

Those developers may still use HTML5 URLs by taking the following two steps:

1. Provide the router with an appropriate `APP_BASE_HREF` value.

> 1. Use root URLs for all web resources: CSS, images, scripts, and template HTML files.

Author: Not sure... Maybe it means absolute URLs?

> A URL can have the following parts:

Author: This section is simply here to define the parts of a URL so I can reference them below. This URL is not meant to be interpreted as a `<base href>` but just _any_ URL.

```
foo://example.com:8042/over/there?name=ferret#nose
\_/   \______________/\_________/ \_________/ \__/
 |           |            |            |        |
scheme    authority      path        query   fragment
```

* The `<base href>` path should end with a "/", as browsers ignore characters in the path that follow the right-most "/".
* If the `<base href>` path includes a query part, that part is only used if the page-URL path is empty and has no query.
This means that a query in the base is only included when using `HashLocationStrategy`.

> * If a URL has an `authority` part, the authority, path, query, and fragment are taken from the URL. In this way, an `APP_BASE_HREF` with an authority can override the `<base href>` value.

Author: hmmm, kind of...The way you've written it is confusing as well. What this means is that if an `APP_BASE_HREF` is something like "http://localhost:4200", i.e. it has an `authority`, then the `<base href>` is ignored. Angular always constructs link URLs using the `APP_BASE_HREF`. After that, the browser takes over and decides how to use the `<base href>` with those links on the page. If those links have an `authority` part because the `APP_BASE_HREF` did, then `<base href>` is not used. This is specifically to address the confusion in #25323

Those developers may still use HTML5 URLs by taking the following two steps:

1. Provide the router with an appropriate `APP_BASE_HREF` value.
1. Use root URLs (URLs with an `authority`) for all web resources: CSS, images, scripts, and template HTML files.

* The `<base href>` `path` should end with a "/", as browsers ignore characters in the `path` that follow the right-most "/".
* If the `<base href>` includes a `query` part, the `query` is only used if the `path` of a link in the page is empty and has no `query`.
This means that a `query` in the `<base href>` is only included when using `HashLocationStrategy`.

> * If a link in the page has an `authority` part, the `<base href>` is not used. In this way, an `APP_BASE_HREF` with an authority will cause all links created by Angular to ignore the `<base href>` value.

Reviewer 2: Tentative suggestion. Feel free to ignore:

```suggestion
* If a link in the page is a root URL (has an `authority`), the `<base href>` is not used. In this way, an `APP_BASE_HREF` with an authority will cause all links created by Angular to ignore the `<base href>` value.
```
